<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY ksudoku "Ksudoku">
<!ENTITY kappname "&ksudoku;"
> 
  <!ENTITY kappversion "0.5"
><!--Applicaion version. Use this variable everywhere it's needed.-->
  <!ENTITY package "kdegames"
>  <!-- do not change this! -->
  <!ENTITY % Galician  "INCLUDE"
> <!-- change language only here -->
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE"
> <!-- do not change this! -->
]>
 
<book lang="&language;"
> <!-- do not change this! -->
<bookinfo>
	<title
>Manual do &kappname;</title
> <!-- This is the title of this docbook. -->
<!-- List of immidiate authors begins here. -->
<!--INPORTANT! - All other contributors: [to be determined] -->
<authorgroup>
	<author
><firstname
>Mick</firstname
> <surname
>Kappenburg</surname
> <affiliation
><address
><email
>ksudoku@kappenburg.net</email
></address
></affiliation>
	</author>
	<author
><firstname
>Eugene</firstname
> <surname
>Trounev</surname
> <affiliation
><address
><email
>eugene.trounev@gmail.com</email
></address
></affiliation>
	</author>
<othercredit role="translator"
><firstname
>Xosé</firstname
><surname
>Calvo</surname
><affiliation
><address
><email
></email
></address
></affiliation
><contrib
>Tradutor do proxecto Trasno</contrib
></othercredit
> 
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
	<year
>2007</year>
	<holder
>Mick Kappenburg</holder>
</copyright>
<legalnotice
>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>
 
<date
>2007-11-14</date
><!-- Date of (re)writing, or update.-->
<releaseinfo
>&kappversion;</releaseinfo
><!-- Application version number. Use the variable definitions within header to change this value.-->
 
<!--Short description of this document. Do not change unless necessary!-->
<abstract>
	<para
>Esta documentación describe o xogo de &kappname; versión &kappversion;</para>
</abstract>
 
<!--List of relevan keywords-->
<keywordset>
	<keyword
>KDE</keyword
> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<keyword
>kdegames</keyword
> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<keyword
>xogo</keyword
> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<keyword
>ksudoku</keyword
><!--Application name goes here-->
<!-- Game genre. Use as many as necessary. Available game types are: Arcade, Board, Card, Dice, Toys, Logic, Strategy.-->
	<keyword
>lóxica</keyword>
	<keyword
>taboleiro</keyword>
<!--Number of possible players. It can be: One, Two,..., Multiplayer-->
	<keyword
>un xogador</keyword>
<!--All other relevant keywords-->
	<keyword
>puzzle</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>
<!--Content begins here: -->
<chapter id="introduction"
><title
>Introdución</title
> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<note
><title
>Tipo de xogo:</title
><para
>Lóxica, Taboleiro</para
></note
><!-- Game genre. Use as many as necessary. Available game types are: Arcade, Board, Card, Dice, Toys, Logic, Strategy.-->
	<note
><title
>Número de xogadores posíbeis:</title
><para
>Un</para
></note
><!--Number of possible players. It can be: One, Two,..., Multiplayer-->
 	<para
>O &kappname; é un puzzle de colocación de símbolos baseado na lóxica</para>
<para
>The player has to fill a grid so that each column, row as well as each square block on the game field contains only one instance of each symbol.</para>
<para
>Depending on the preferences and the difficulty level some games start with a partially completed game field, while the others start with a blank one.</para>
<para
>There are hundreds of different variations of sudoku in existence. The most common variant of the game has a 9x9 squares grid and uses Arabic numerals for symbols. As an extra constraint, the grid is divided into 9 sectors of 3x3 squares. The problem is – each symbol can only be used once per row, column and sector. </para>
	<note>
		<title
>Nota:</title>
		<para
>It takes a lot of time and concentration to complete each game. However, solving sudoku puzzles helps to increase the overall brain activity and therefore is highly recommended.</para>
	</note>
</chapter>
 
<chapter id="howto"
><title
>Como xogar</title
> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!--IMPORTANT: If the game has no defined objective, please remove the below line.-->
	<note
><title
>Obxectivo:</title
><para
>Fill the grid so that each column, row as well as each square sector on the game field contains only one instance of each symbol.</para
></note
><!--Describe the objective of the game.-->
<!--How to play description. Don't be to specific on rules as they have a separate section in this document-->
	<para
>At the game start you are prompted to choose which game type you are interested in.</para>
<note
><title
>Nota:</title
><para
>The game experience may change slightly depending on the game type you choose.</para
></note>
<para
>Take a look at left hand side of the game field. There is a selection list which contains all the symbols available for you to use in the current game.</para>
<note
><title
>Nota:</title
><para
>The set of symbols varies depending on the game type you choose.</para
></note>
<para
>First, note the boundaries of the game field. The thick black lines outline the sectors. Every one of this sectors has to be completed using the symbols available, in such a way that each symbol is used within the sector area once and only once.</para>
<para
>Now you can start entering the symbols into the vacant squares on the game field. You can do that by selecting the symbol you wish to enter from the selection list on the left, and then using your mouse to click on the vacant square on the game field.</para>
<para
>Notice that the squares change color while you hover your mouse over them. It is done to help you keep up with the rules of &kappname;. Use the vertical and horizontal lines to check if the symbol, you are about to enter into the vacant spot, is already in use anywhere in the vertical or horizontal line that square is a part of. The coloring also highlights the sector which, if you remember, must also contain only one instance of each symbol.</para>
<para
>Keep entering the symbols in accordance with the rules until the whole game field is filled up. At this point the application will check if all the entries are valid and either correct you, or except the solution. </para>
</chapter>
 
<chapter id="rules_and_tips"
><title
>Regras do xogo, estratexias e suxestións</title
> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<!--This section has to do with game rules. Please give a detailed description of those using lists or paragraphs.-->
	<sect1 id="rules">
		<title
>Regras xerais do xogo</title>
		<para
>As regras do &kappname; son bastante simples.</para>
		<itemizedlist>
		<listitem
><para
>Depending on the size of the game board and the difficulty level chosen each individual &kappname; puzzle may take up to a few hours to solve.</para
></listitem>
		<listitem
><para
>Cada cadrado pode conter un e só un símbolo.</para
></listitem>
		<listitem
><para
>Cada ringleira horizontal (como se definen no taboleiro) pode conter cada símbolo exactamente unha vez.</para
></listitem>
		<listitem
><para
>Each vertical row (as defined by the game board) can contain each symbol exactly once.</para
></listitem>
		<listitem
><para
>Each subgrid or section (as defined by the game board) can contain each symbol exactly once</para
></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
		<note
><title
>Nota:</title
><para
>The set of symbols varies depending on the game type you choose.</para
></note>
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem
><para
>Knowledge of mathematics, or language is not required to solve &kappname; puzzles.</para
></listitem>
			<listitem
><para
>Depending on the difficulty chosen the puzzles may appear partially solved. In such case the symbols already on the game board cannot be changed.</para
></listitem>
			<listitem
><para
>Só se poden modificar o símbolos que se vaian introducindo.</para
></listitem>
			<listitem
><para
>&kappname; generated puzzles have one solution only.</para
></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
	</sect1>
	<sect1 id="tips">
		<title
>Estratexias e suxestións</title>
		<itemizedlist>
			<listitem
><para
>Take your time and do not rush. &kappname; is not a 'quick' game to play.</para
></listitem>
		<listitem
><para
>Pay attention to the row, column, and section colorings. They are here to aid you in the game.</para
></listitem>
		<listitem
><para
>Make sure that so duplicate symbol exists already in the row/column/section you are entering it to.</para
></listitem>
		<listitem
><para
>If in doubt, try to foresee if a square you are entering a symbol into maybe needed by some other symbol, which otherwise cannot go anywhere else due to the row/column/section rule violation.</para
></listitem>
		<listitem
><para
>If you are having troubles, try to retrace your steps and see exactly where you have made an error.</para
></listitem>
		<listitem
><para
>Even though &kappname; provides a 'Hint' option for you, try not to use it often. Remember solving the puzzle all by yourself enhances your brain activity, while using the 'Hint' feature too often is cheating.</para
></listitem>
			<listitem
><para
>If you have much trouble solving a certain puzzle, and simply must use the 'Hint' feature, then maybe you should try to decrease the difficulty level, or try a simpler, more basic puzzle.</para
></listitem>
		<listitem
><para
>Some puzzle layouts feature very specific game board shapes. It is a good idea to have the coloring option enabled even if you consider yourself an experienced player.</para
></listitem>
		</itemizedlist>
	</sect1>
</chapter>
  
<chapter id="interface"
><title
>Vista xeral da interface</title
> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!-- This section has to do with menubar. Describe every single entry in order. Use <variablelist
> and <varlistentry
>. Split the chapter into sections using <sect1(2,3)
> for better viewing.-->
<sect1 id="game-menu">
	<title
>O menú <guimenu
>Partida</guimenu
></title>
		<variablelist>
			<varlistentry id="game-menu-new">
				<term
><menuchoice
><shortcut
><keycombo action="simul"
>&Ctrl;<keycap
></keycap
></keycombo
></shortcut
><guimenu
>Partida</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Nova</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Inicia unha partida nova.</action
></para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry  id="game-menu-load">
				<term
><menuchoice
><shortcut
><keycombo action="simul"
>&Ctrl;<keycap
>O</keycap
></keycombo
></shortcut
> <guimenu
>Partida</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Cargar...</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Carga unha partida gardada.</action
></para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="game-menu-save">
				<term
><menuchoice
><shortcut
><keycombo action="simul"
>&Ctrl;<keycap
>S</keycap
></keycombo
></shortcut
> <guimenu
>Partida</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Gardar</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Garda</action
> a partida como ficheiro de gardado por omisión.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="game-menu-save-as">
				<term
><menuchoice
><guimenu
>Partida</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Gardar como...</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Garda</action
> a partida como ficheiro do tipo que se escolla.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry>
				<term
><menuchoice
><shortcut
><keycombo action="simul"
>&Ctrl;<keycap
>Q</keycap
></keycombo
> </shortcut
> <guimenu
>Partida</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Saír</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Sae</action
> do &kappname;.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
		</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="move-menu">
	<title
>O menú <guimenu
>Mover</guimenu
></title>
		<variablelist>
			<varlistentry id="move-menu-undo">
				<term
><menuchoice
><shortcut
><keycombo action="simul"
>&Ctrl;<keycap
>Z</keycap
></keycombo
></shortcut
> <guimenu
>Mover</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Desfacer</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Undo</action
> your last move.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="move-menu-redo">
				<term
><menuchoice
><shortcut
><keycombo action="simul"
>&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap
>Z</keycap
></keycombo
></shortcut
> <guimenu
>Mover</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Refacer</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Redo</action
> a move that was undone.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="move-menu-hint">
				<term
><menuchoice
><shortcut
><keycap
>H</keycap
></shortcut
> <guimenu
>Mover</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Axuda</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Gives a Hint</action
> by flashing a matching pair of tiles.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="move-menu-demo">
				<term
><menuchoice
><guimenu
>Mover</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Resolver</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Resolve instantaneamente</action
> o puzzle.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="move-menu-shuffle">
				<term
><menuchoice
><guimenu
>Mover</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Comprobar</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Check</action
> the entry for validity.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
		</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="settings-menu">
	<title
>O <guimenu
>menú</guimenu
> Configuración</title>
		<variablelist>
			<varlistentry>
				<term
><menuchoice
><guimenu
>Configuración</guimenu
> <guisubmenu
>Barras de ferramentas</guisubmenu
> <guimenuitem
>Barra de ferramentas principal</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
>Shows or hides the Main Toolbar.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="settings-menu-hide-matching">
				<term
><menuchoice
><guimenu
>Configuración</guimenu
> <guisubmenu
>Barras de ferramentas</guisubmenu
> <guimenuitem
>Barra ferramentas de accións</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
>Shows or hides the Actions Toolbar.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>

			<varlistentry id="settings-menu-statusbar">
				<term
><menuchoice
><guimenu
>Configuración</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Mostrar a barra de estado</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
>Shows or hides the Statusbar.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="settings-menu-shortcuts">
				<term
><menuchoice
><guimenu
>Configuración</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Configurar os atallos de teclado...</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Displays a standard &kde; shortcut configuration dialog</action
> to change the keyboard shortcuts for &kappname;.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="settings-menu-toolbar">
				<term
><menuchoice
><guimenu
>Configuración</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Configurar as barras de ferramentas...</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
>Displays a standard &kde; dialog where you can configure the toolbar icons.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="settings-menu-settings">
				<term
><menuchoice
><guimenu
>Configuración</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Configurar o &kappname;...</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
				<listitem
><para
><action
>Opens a dialog to configure &kappname;.</action
> See <link linkend="configuration"
>Game Configuration</link
> section for details.</para
></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
		</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="help"
><!--This is a standard Help menubar entry. Only change if needed.-->
<title
>O <guimenu
>menú</guimenu
> Axuda</title>
<para
>&kappname; has a default &kde; <guimenu
>Help</guimenu
> menu as described below, with one addition:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term
><menuchoice
><guimenu
>Help</guimenu
> <guimenuitem
>Home Page</guimenuitem
> </menuchoice
></term>
<listitem>
<para
>Opens the &kappname; website on sourceforge.net in &konqueror;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para
>The default &kde; <guimenu
>Help</guimenu
> entries are:</para>
&help.menu.documentation; </sect1>
</chapter>
  
<chapter id="faq"
><title
>Preguntas frecuentes</title
> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!--This chapter is for frequently asked questions. Please use <qandaset
> <qandaentry
> only!-->
<qandaset>
<!--Following is a standard list of FAQ questions.-->
<qandaentry>
 <question
><para
>Quero cambiar o aspecto do xogo. Podo? </para
></question>
 <answer
><para
>Sudoku games are traditionally played using square grid. Themes would not make much sense here. However, you can select the set of symbols used in game. To do so use <menuchoice
><guimenu
>Settings</guimenu
><guimenuitem
>Configure &kappname;...</guimenuitem
></menuchoice
> on menubar.</para
></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
 <question
><para
>I changed the symbols in the configuration dialog and now my entire game board is filled with question marks. What is the problem?</para
></question>
 <answer
><para
>Each set contains a limited number of possible symbols. If you have chosen the set which has less symbols then your current game requires, the application will complain by displaying question marks. Change the set to fix the problem.</para
></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
 <question
><para
>Pódese empregar o teclado para xogar a este xogo? </para
></question>
 <answer
><para
>Yes. In &kappname; keyboard play is always enabled. Please use cursor keys to move the selection, numeric characters to enter the symbols and &Shift; key to apply markers.</para
></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
 <question
><para
>Onde están as mellores puntuacións?</para
></question>
 <answer
><para
>O &kappname; non ten esta funcionalidade.</para
></answer>
</qandaentry>
<!--Please add more Q&As if needed-->
 
</qandaset>
</chapter>
 
<chapter id="configuration"
><title
>Configuración do xogo</title
> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!--This section describes configuration GUI. If your game is configured using menubar exclusively, please remove this section.-->

<sect1 id="general-options"
><title
><guilabel
>Game</guilabel
> Options</title>
	<variablelist>
		<varlistentry>
			<term
><guilabel
>Mostrar os realzados</guilabel
></term>
			<listitem
><para
>Conmutar a opción de realzado do &kappname;.</para>
					<note
><title
>Nota:</title
><para
>Recoméndase ter esta opción activada mesmo para os xogadores máis experimentados porque axuda a ver as limitacións do taboleiro.</para
></note
></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
		<varlistentry>
			<term
><guilabel
>Mostrar os erros</guilabel
></term>
			<listitem
><para
>Conmutar o realce das entradas non válidas.</para
></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
	</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="layout-options"
><title
><guilabel
>Symbol Themes</guilabel
> Options</title>
	<variablelist>
		<varlistentry>
			<term
><guilabel
>Simple Forms</guilabel
></term>
			<listitem
><para
>Toggles on and off the use of simple forms for the ingame pictograms.</para
></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
		<varlistentry>
			<term
><guilabel
>Dices</guilabel
></term>
			<listitem
><para
>Toggles on and off the use of dice for the ingame pictograms.</para
></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
		<varlistentry>
			<term
><guilabel
>Digits</guilabel
></term>
			<listitem
><para
>Toggles on and off the use of Arabic numerals for the ingame pictograms.</para
></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
		<varlistentry>
			<term
><guilabel
>Small Letters</guilabel
></term>
			<listitem
><para
>Toggles on and off the use of small Latin letters for the ingame pictograms.</para
></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
		<varlistentry>
			<term
><guilabel
>Capital Letters</guilabel
></term>
			<listitem
><para
>Toggles on and off the use of capital Latin letters for the ingame pictograms.</para
></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
	</variablelist>
	<note
><title
>Nota:</title
><para
>Each set contains a limited number of possible symbols. If you have chosen the set which has less symbols then your current game requires, the application will complain by displaying question marks. Change the set to fix the problem.</para
></note>
</sect1>
</chapter>
 
<chapter id="credits"
><title
>Créditos e licenza</title
> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!--This chapter is for credits and licenses.-->
 
<para
>&kappname; </para>

<!--List all the copyright holders here-->
<para
>&kappname; copyright 2005-2007 Francesco Rossi <email
>redsh@email.it</email
> </para>
<para
>Copyright 2006-2007 Mick Kappenburg <email
>ksudoku@kappenburg.net</email
>, Johannes Bergmeier <email
>johannes.bergmeier@gmx.net</email
> </para>
<para
>Documentación copyright 2005 Francesco Rossi <email
>redsh@email.it</email
> </para>
<para
>Copyright da documentación 2007 Mick Kappenburg <email
>ksudoku@kappenburg.net</email
>, Eugene Trounev <email
>eugene.trounev@gmail.com</email
> </para>

<para
>Tradución da documentación: Xosé Calvo - http://trasno.net/</para
> 
&underFDL; &underGPL; </chapter>
  
<appendix id="installation">
<title
>Instalación</title>
 
&install.intro.documentation;
 
 
<sect1 id="Compilation">
<title
>Compilación e instalación</title>
&install.compile.documentation; </sect1>
</appendix>
 
&documentation.index; 
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-omittag:t
sgml-shorttag:t
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
sgml-parent-document:nil
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
