<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY ksudoku "KSudoku">
<!ENTITY kappname "&ksudoku;">
  <!ENTITY kappversion "1.1"><!--Application version. Use this variable everywhere it's needed.-->
  <!ENTITY package "kdegames">  <!-- do not change this! -->
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE"> <!-- do not change this! -->
]>

<book id="ksudoku" lang="&language;"> <!-- do not change this! -->
<bookinfo>
	<title>The &kappname; Handbook</title> <!-- This is the title of this docbook. -->
<!-- List of immediate authors begins here. -->
<!--INPORTANT! - All other contributors: [to be determined] -->
<authorgroup>
	<author>
		<firstname>Mick</firstname>
		<surname>Kappenburg</surname>
		<affiliation><address><email>ksudoku@kappenburg.net</email></address></affiliation>
	</author>
	<author>
		<firstname>Eugene</firstname>
		<surname>Trounev</surname>
		<affiliation><address><email>eugene.trounev@gmail.com</email></address></affiliation>
	</author>
	<author>
		<firstname>Ian</firstname>
		<surname>Wadham</surname>
		<affiliation><address><email>iandw.au@gmail.com</email></address></affiliation>
	</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
	<year>2007</year>
	<holder>Mick Kappenburg</holder>
</copyright>
<copyright>
	<year>2011</year>
	<holder>Ian Wadham</holder>
</copyright>
<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2013-05-05</date><!-- Date of (re)writing, or update.-->
<releaseinfo>&kappversion; (&kde; 4.11)</releaseinfo><!-- Application version number. Use the variable definitions within header to change this value.-->

<!--Short description of this document. Do not change unless necessary!-->
<abstract>
	<para>This documentation describes the game of &kappname; version &kappversion;</para>
</abstract>

<!--List of relevant keywords-->
<keywordset>
	<keyword>KDE</keyword> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<keyword>kdegames</keyword> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<keyword>game</keyword> <!-- do not change this! -->
	<keyword>ksudoku</keyword><!--Application name goes here-->
<!-- Game genre. Use as many as necessary. Available game types are: Arcade, Board, Card, Dice, Toys, Logic, Strategy.-->
	<keyword>logic</keyword>
	<keyword>board</keyword>
<!--Number of possible players. It can be: One, Two,..., Multiplayer-->
	<keyword>one player</keyword>
<!--All other relevant keywords-->
	<keyword>puzzle</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<!--Content begins here: -->

<chapter id="introduction"><title>Introduction</title> <!-- do not change this! -->

	<note><title>Gametype:</title><para>
		Logic, Board</para></note>

	<note><title>Number of possible players:</title><para>
		One</para></note>

<para>&kappname; is a logic-based symbol placement puzzle.</para>

<para>The player has to fill a grid with symbols so that each column, row
	and block on the game board contains only one instance of each
	symbol. In &kappname; the symbols are usually the numbers 1 to 9,
	but may be the letters A to P or A to Y in larger puzzles. Puzzles
	start with the board partially filled and it is your job to fill
	in the rest.</para>

<para>When you start a game, you can choose from several Sudoku types
	and sizes. You can then have &kappname; generate a puzzle for
	you to solve or you can start with an empty board and enter in
	a puzzle from another source, such as a newspaper, then get
	&kappname; to check it and maybe solve it.</para>

<para>There are many variations of Sudoku in existence and &kappname;
	provides a good selection of them. The most common variant has
	a 9x9 square grid and uses Arabic numerals 1 to 9 as symbols. The
	grid has 9 rows and 9 columns and is divided into 9 blocks of
	3x3 squares. The problem is – each symbol can only be used once
	per row, column or block.</para>

	<note><para>
		It takes time and concentration to complete a game. However,
		solving Sudoku puzzles helps to increase overall brain activity
		and therefore is highly recommended.</para></note>
</chapter>

<chapter id="howto"><title>How to Play</title> <!-- do not change this! -->

	<note><title>Objective:</title><para>
		Fill the grid so that each column, row and block contains only
		one instance of each symbol.</para></note>

<para>When the game starts you are prompted to choose which game type and board
	size you are interested in. You can enter in a puzzle from another
	source or have &kappname; generate a puzzle. The generator has several
	difficulty settings and some symmetry settings, which affect
	the pattern in which the puzzle is generated. Your game experience will
	depend on which of all these options you choose.</para>

<para>When the puzzle board appears, take a look at the left hand side. There
	is a selection list which contains all the symbols available in the
	current game. The set of symbols depends on the size of game you
	choose. Games may have 4, 9, 16 or 25 symbols. The first two sets
	use the numbers 1 to 4 or 1 to 9: the others use the letters A to P
	or A to Y.</para>

<para>First, note the boundaries in the game board. The thick lines outline
	the blocks. Each of these blocks has to be completed using the symbols
	available and each symbol must be used once and only once within the
	block. The same is true of the rows and columns in the board.</para>

<para>Now you can start entering symbols into the vacant squares on the board.
	To do that, select the symbol you wish to enter from the selection
	list on the left, then use the mouse to click on a vacant square
	in the board. Alternatively, you can hover with the mouse over a
	vacant square or use the cursor keys to move around, 
        then use the keyboard to enter a symbol.</para>

<para>In Roxdoku (three-dimensional) puzzles, always use the mouse to set a
	small cube to a value and use a <emphasis>double</emphasis>
	click. When you rotate the large cube, by clicking and dragging
	with the mouse, it is easier to see what values are on the small
	cubes in the background if you click <emphasis>between</emphasis>
	the small cubes, not on them.</para>

<para>It is useful sometimes to enter markers or notes, which are tiny
	symbols within a square. These have no influence on the solution,
	but they can help you keep track of ideas you have had, especially
	when there is a choice between two alternatives and you do not
	yet have enough information to decide between them. To enter a
	marker or note, click with the right mouse button or hold down
	the &Shift; key when using the keyboard.</para>

<para>To clear symbols from a square, hover over the square with the
	mouse and hit <keycap>Delete</keycap> or <keycap>Backspace</keycap> on the
	keyboard or click with the &RMB; on the square.</para>

<para>Notice that the squares change color while you hover the mouse over
	them. This is to help you keep up with the rules of &kappname;. Use
	the vertical and horizontal lines to check if the symbol you are
	about to enter into a vacant spot is already in use anywhere in
	the vertical or horizontal line that square is a part of. The coloring
	also highlights the block which, if you remember, must also contain
	only one instance of each symbol. If you do not need the highlighting,
	you can use the <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
	<guimenuitem>Configure &kappname;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
	menu item to turn it off.</para>

<para>Keep entering symbols in accordance with the rules until the whole
	game field is filled up. At this point &kappname; will check if all
	the entries are valid and will either correct you or accept your
	solution.</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="rules_and_tips"><title>Game Rules, Strategies and Tips</title> <!-- do not change this! -->

<sect1 id="rules"><title>General Game Rules</title>

<para>The rules of &kappname; are quite simple.</para>
	<itemizedlist>
	<listitem><para>Depending on the size of the game board, the type
		of puzzle and the difficulty level chosen an individual
		&kappname; puzzle may take from a few minutes to a few
		hours to solve.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Each square may hold one and only one
		symbol.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Each horizontal row (as defined by the game board)
		can contain each symbol exactly once.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Each vertical column (as defined by the game board)
		can contain each symbol exactly once.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Each block (as defined by the game board) can
		contain each symbol exactly once</para></listitem>
	</itemizedlist>

	<note><title>Note:</title><para>
		The set of symbols depends on the size of game you
		choose.</para></note>

	<itemizedlist>
	<listitem><para>Knowledge of mathematics or language is not required
		to solve &kappname; puzzles.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>The symbols already on the game board when the
		puzzle starts cannot be changed.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>You can only modify the symbols you have previously
		entered.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Puzzles generated by &kappname; have one solution
		only.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Puzzles you enter in might have no solution or
		more than one solution, but if they are from a published
		source this probably means you have made a data-entry
		error.</para></listitem>
	</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="variants"><title>&kappname; Variations</title>

	<itemizedlist>
	<listitem><para>The Standard 9x9 Sudoku puzzle has 9 rows, 9 columns
		and 9 square blocks of size 3x3.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Other sizes of Standard Sudoku are 4x4 (very easy),
		16x16 and 25x25 (not so easy).</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>The Jigsaw variation is the same as Standard Sudoku
		except that some blocks are not square.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>The XSudoku variation is exactly the same as Standard
		Sudoku with an additional requirement: the two main
		diagonals must also each contain the symbols 1 to 9 once
		and once only. &kappname; highlights the diagonals to make
		this easier to see.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>The Roxdoku variations are based on cubes in three
		dimensions, but are easier than they sound. There are no
		rows or columns. A 3x3x3 Roxdoku puzzle has 27 small cubes
		arranged into a larger 3x3x3 cube. This contains nine
		slices, each containing 3x3 small cubes, and these are
		the square blocks that must be filled with the numbers
		1 to 9. A 4x4x4 Roxdoku has twelve 4x4 slices and a
		5x5x5 Roxdoku has fifteen 5x5 slices.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>The Samurai Sudoku consists of five Standard Sudoku
		puzzles of 9x9 squares each, overlapping at the corners
		by four 3x3 blocks. Each of the five puzzles has 9 rows
		and 9 columns to solve, but there are only 41 blocks to
		solve, rather than 45, because of the overlap.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>The Tiny Samurai Sudoku consists of five 4x4
		puzzles, overlapping at the corners by four squares. Each
		of the five puzzles has 4 rows, 4 columns and 4 blocks to
		solve.</para></listitem>
	</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="tips"><title>Strategies and Tips</title>

	<itemizedlist>
	<listitem><para>Take your time and do not rush. &kappname; is not
		a quick game.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Pay attention to the row, column, and block
		colorings. They are there to help you.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Make sure that no duplicate symbol exists already
		in the row, column or block where you are entering a
		symbol.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>If in doubt, try to foresee if a square you are
		entering a symbol into may be needed by some other symbol,
		which otherwise cannot go anywhere else due to the
		row, column and block rules.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Use the Internet to search for general hints
		and strategies for solving Sudoku puzzles.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Use marker moves when you spot a square or
		squares that have just a few alternatives but you
		cannot decide between them immediately. Markers will
		save you time and memory effort later, when more
		squares have been filled in. See <link linkend="howto">
		How to Play</link> for details of how to use
		markers.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>If you are having trouble, try to retrace your
		steps and see exactly where you have made an error. You
		can use the <menuchoice><guimenu>Move</guimenu>
		<guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem></menuchoice> and
		<menuchoice><guimenu>Move</guimenu>
		<guimenuitem>Redo</guimenuitem></menuchoice> menu
		items, repeatedly if necessary, and there is a setting
		in <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
		<guimenuitem>Configure &kappname;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
		that highlights errors.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Even though &kappname; provides a 'Hint' option
		for you, try not to use it often. Remember, solving the
		puzzle all by yourself enhances your brain activity,
		while using the 'Hint' feature too often is
		cheating.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>If you have too much trouble solving a certain
		puzzle and simply must use the 'Hint' feature, then
		maybe you should try decreasing the difficulty level,
		or try a simpler, more basic puzzle.</para></listitem>
	<listitem><para>Some puzzle layouts feature very specific game
		board shapes. It is a good idea to have the highlighting
		option enabled even if you consider yourself an
		experienced player.</para></listitem>
	</itemizedlist>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="interface"><title>Interface Overview</title> <!-- do not change this! -->

<sect1 id="welcome-screen"><title>The Welcome Screen</title>

<para>The Welcome Screen is the first thing you see when you start
	&kappname; or use the toolbar or menu to request a new game.
	It has a list of all the puzzle types and sizes and you can
	click on one of them to make a selection.</para>

<para>If you click the button marked <guilabel>Enter In A Puzzle</guilabel>, an empty board
	of the selected type and size appears. Here you can use the mouse
	or keyboard to enter in a puzzle from another source, such as
	a newspaper. When you have finished, use the <guilabel>Check</guilabel> action, on
	toolbar or menu, to check the puzzle. It should have just one
	solution. If so, you can start solving the puzzle or perhaps
	get &kappname; to solve it. If there is no solution or more
	than one solution, it probably means you have made a data-entry
	error somewhere.</para>

<para>If you click the button marked <guilabel>Generate A Puzzle</guilabel>, &kappname;
	will display a board with some squares already filled in. It
	is up to you to fill in the rest.</para>

<para>Before you generate a puzzle, check that the settings of the
	<guilabel>Difficulty</guilabel> and <guilabel>Symmetry</guilabel>
	buttons are to your liking. You can change them during a game, but
	then they will have no effect until the next puzzle is
	generated.</para>

	<note><para>If you cannot see the <guilabel>Difficulty</guilabel> and <guilabel>Symmetry</guilabel>
		buttons, use the <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
		<guimenuitem>Show Statusbar</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
		menu item to make sure that the statusbar is
		visible.</para></note>

<para>The <guilabel>Difficulty</guilabel> button provides six levels of difficulty, from
	<guimenuitem>Very Easy</guimenuitem> up to <guimenuitem>Hard</guimenuitem>,
	<guimenuitem>Diabolical</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Unlimited</guimenuitem>. The easier
	levels may take a few minutes to solve on a 9x9 board. The
	<guimenuitem>Hard</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Diabolical</guimenuitem> levels may take an hour or so and are
	intended to be equivalent to difficult grades appearing in
	newspapers. Samurai puzzles and 16x16 or 25x25 sizes of
	puzzles will take longer to solve, simply because there are
	more rows, columns and blocks and more squares to fill in.</para>

<para>The Diabolical level typically requires one or more guesses,
	with backtracking if you guess wrong. Lower levels can usually
	be solved by logic alone. The Unlimited level has no limits
	on the number of guesses required, how soon the first guess
	is needed or how complex the logic might be. It is provided
	for the interest of expert players, but tends to generate
	uninteresting 'inhuman' puzzles and is not recommended for
	general use.</para>

 <para>The <guilabel>Symmetry</guilabel> button provides seven types of symmetry, including
	<guimenuitem>No Symmetry</guimenuitem>. This controls the layout and appearance of the
	squares that are filled in at the start of a puzzle and has
	mainly aesthetic effect, except that puzzles with no symmetry
	tend to be slightly harder than those with high symmetry and
	it is less likely that &kappname; can generate a puzzle with
	high difficulty and high symmetry combined.</para>
</sect1>

<!-- This section has to do with menubar. Describe every single entry in order. Use <variablelist> and <varlistentry>. Split the chapter into sections using <sect1(2,3)> for better viewing.-->
<sect1 id="game-menu"><title>The <guimenu>Game</guimenu> Menu</title>

		<variablelist>
			<varlistentry id="game-menu-new">
				<term><menuchoice>
					<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
					<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Starts a new game.</action></para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry  id="game-menu-load">
				<term><menuchoice>
					<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
					<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>Load...</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Loads a saved game.</action></para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="game-menu-save">
				<term><menuchoice>
					<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
					<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Saves</action> the current game as a default save file.</para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="game-menu-save-as">
				<term><menuchoice>
					<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>Save As...</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Saves</action> the current game as a file of your choice.</para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry>
				<term><menuchoice>
					<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
					<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>Print...</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Prints</action> the
				current state of the game on a printer of your
				choice. The block outlines and original puzzle
				values are printed in black. Other cells,
				filled-in values and solution values are printed
				in gray. There is an option to print just one
				puzzle or more than one puzzle per page. See
				<link linkend="configuration">Game Configuration</link>.</para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry>
				<term><menuchoice>
					<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
					<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Quits</action> &kappname;.</para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
		</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="move-menu">
	<title>The <guimenu>Move</guimenu> Menu</title>
		<variablelist>
			<varlistentry id="move-menu-undo">
				<term><menuchoice>
					<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
					<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Undo</action> your last move, repeatedly if required.</para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="move-menu-redo">
				<term><menuchoice>
					<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
					<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>Redo</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Redo</action> a move that was undone, repeatedly if required.</para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="move-menu-hint">
				<term><menuchoice>
					<shortcut><keycap>H</keycap></shortcut>
					<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>Hint</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Give a Hint</action> by filling in a vacant square.</para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="move-menu-demo">
				<term><menuchoice>
					<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>Solve</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Instantly solve</action> the puzzle.</para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry id="move-menu-shuffle">
				<term><menuchoice>
					<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>Check</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Check</action> an entered puzzle for validity. If it has only one solution, it becomes available for play. If it has no solution or more than one solution, there has probably been an error in the data-entry.</para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
		</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="settings-menu">
	<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>
		<variablelist>
			<varlistentry id="settings-menu-settings">
				<term><menuchoice>
					<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
					<guimenuitem>Configure &kappname;...</guimenuitem>
				</menuchoice></term>
				<listitem><para><action>Open a dialog to configure &kappname;.</action> See <link linkend="configuration">Game Configuration</link> section for details.</para></listitem>
			</varlistentry>
		</variablelist>
		<para>
		  Additionally &picmi; has the common &kde; <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> and <guimenu>Help</guimenu>
		  menu items, for more information read the sections about the <ulink url="help:/fundamentals/ui.html#menus-settings">Settings Menu</ulink> and
		  <ulink url="help:/fundamentals/ui.html#menus-help">Help Menu</ulink>
		  of the &kde; Fundamentals.
		</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="faq"><title>Frequently asked questions</title> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!--This chapter is for frequently asked questions. Please use <qandaset> <qandaentry> only!-->
<qandaset>
<!--Following is a standard list of FAQ questions.-->
<qandaentry>
 <question><para>I want to change the way this game looks. Can I? </para></question>
 <answer><para>Sudoku games are traditionally played using a square grid. Themes do not make much sense here, but you can select some color schemes and backgrounds. To do so use <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure &kappname;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> on the menubar.</para></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
 <question><para>Can I use the keyboard to play this game? </para></question>
 <answer><para>Yes. In &kappname; keyboard play is always enabled. Please use the cursor keys to move the selection, numeric or alphabetic characters to enter the symbols and the &Shift; key to apply markers.</para></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
 <question><para>Where are the high scores?</para></question>
 <answer><para>&kappname; does not have this feature.</para></answer>
</qandaentry>
<!--Please add more Q&As if needed-->

</qandaset>
</chapter>

<chapter id="configuration"><title>Game Configuration</title> <!-- do not change this! -->
<!--This section describes configuration GUI. If your game is configured using menubar exclusively, please remove this section.-->

<sect1 id="general-options"><title><guilabel>Game</guilabel>Options</title>
	<variablelist>
		<varlistentry>
			<term><guilabel>Printing</guilabel></term>
			<listitem><para>Toggle the option to print more than one puzzle per page whenever they will fit.</para></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
		<varlistentry>
			<term><guilabel>Show Highlights in 2-D puzzles</guilabel></term>
			<listitem><para>Toggle the &kappname; highlight option for two-dimensional puzzles.</para></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
		<varlistentry>
			<term><guilabel>Show Errors</guilabel></term>
			<listitem><para>Toggle the option to highlight errors.</para></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
		<varlistentry>
			<term><guilabel>Show Highlights in 3-D puzzles</guilabel></term>
			<listitem><para>Toggle the &kappname; highlight option for three-dimensional puzzles.</para></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
		<varlistentry>
			<term><guilabel>Settings for 3-D Puzzles Only</guilabel></term>
			<listitem><para>These five settings adjust the highlighting and visibility of cells in three-dimensional puzzles. The idea is to make it easier to see relationships between cells, especially if they are behind other cells.</para></listitem>
		</varlistentry>
	</variablelist>
		<note><title>Note:</title><para>Having the highlighting options enabled is recommended even for the most experienced players, as it helps you see the actual game board constraints.</para></note>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="credits"><title>Credits and License</title> <!-- do not change this! -->

<para>
&kappname;  <!-- do not change this! -->
</para>

<!--List all the copyright holders here-->
<para>Copyright 2005-2007 Francesco Rossi <email>redsh@email.it</email></para>

<para>Copyright 2006-2007 Mick Kappenburg <email>ksudoku@kappenburg.net</email>,
	Johannes Bergmeier <email>johannes.bergmeier@gmx.net</email></para>

<para>Copyright 2011 Ian Wadham <email>iandw.au@gmail.com</email></para>

<para>New solver and generator algorithms 2011 David Bau, <ulink
	url="http://davidbau.com/archives/2006/09/04/sudoku_generator.html">
	see website.</ulink></para>

<para>Documentation copyright 2005 Francesco Rossi
	<email>redsh@email.it</email></para>

<para>Documentation copyright 2007 Mick Kappenburg
	<email>ksudoku@kappenburg.net</email>,
	Eugene Trounev <email>eugene.trounev@gmail.com</email></para>

<para>Documentation copyright 2011 Ian Wadham
	<email>iandw.au@gmail.com</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
&underFDL;
&underGPL;

<!-- !!!do not change ANYTHING after this line!!!! -->
</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

&install.intro.documentation;


<sect1 id="Compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

&install.compile.documentation;

</sect1>
</appendix>

&documentation.index;
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-omittag:t
sgml-shorttag:t
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
sgml-parent-document:nil
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->
